Updating Release Guidelines and Standards (#466)
finos/common-cloud-controls: docs/governance/community-guidelines/releases/README.md

# Releases

This document is a [community guideline].

## Purpose

The document outlines the guidelines of managing releases within the Common Cloud Controls (CCC) project.

## Ownership

> The [Communications WG] has overall ownership of releases. They are responsible for setting the roadmap and communicating project progress to the wider community. All other [WG]'s should contribute to determining the content of a release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Communications WG] has overall ownership of releases. They are responsible for setting the roadmap and communicating project progress to the wider community. All other [WG]'s should contribute to determining the content of a release.
```

Curious about the meaning behind this: "The Communications WG has overall ownership of releases."

Reviewer 2: I think the initial thinking behind this was the comms WG would be the folk speaking to the users and stakeholders to get requests, maintain the roadmap and then be commuinciating back to the users/stakeholders so they would own the release in this regard.

## Scheduling

The community aims for several releases per year. Releases can occur as soon as the controls for a service are complete and approved. As the CCC project is producing a standard, releases should encapsulate a concrete set of stable, robustly tested changes constituting a new version of the project over small isolated changes and bugfixes.

### Events

The community can align releases with events such as the [Open Source in Finance Forum (OSFF)](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-finance-forum/). These events provide excellent opportunities to showcase the project and generate interest.

## Project Board Management

To manage GitHub issues targeted for a release, we recommend using a combination of [Milestones] and labels.

### Milestones

[Milestones] group GitHub issues related to a specific release. Each release should have a single top-level milestone associated with all relevant issues.

> There are two types of releases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of milestones:
```

1. Service Releases: Controls for individual services can be released independently.

> 2. Service Sets: When appropriate, the controls of multiple services can be grouped together and released as a bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Service Sets: When appropriate, the controls of multiple services can be scheduled for simultaneous release. 
```

"Bundling" would need to be in the form of a reference architecture, which we haven't finished designing yet.

### Labels

Each [WG] should apply their label to relevant issues, clearly indicating which issues fall under their responsibility.

Additionally, labels can flag issues specifically targeted for events (e.g., OSFF events).

## Release Process

The release process involves contributors proposing changes through a pull request, followed by reviews and validations from relevant Working Groups, the creation of a release candidate, and multiple stages of approval from the [Change Management Board] (CMB) and project contributors, culminating in the official release being published and announced to the community. The diagram below explains the entire flow at a high-level, and we expand upon this in the subsections of the flow diagram.

> 
> ### Release Flow Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Release Flow Diagram
```

![Release Flow Diagram](./imgs/release-process.drawio.svg)

> ### Flow Explained
> 
> #### Pull Request Validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pull Request Validation
```

> 1. **Submission:** A contributor proposes a deliverable or change through a Pull Request (PR) to the CCC repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Submission:** A contributor proposes a deliverable or change through a Pull Request (PR) to the CCC repository.
  - If a release manager has not been preemptively appointed for this deliverable, the [Delivery WG] should do so at this time.
```

> 2. **Working Group Review:** The relevant [WG]s will review the PR.

Reviewer: Need to refine this section...

We haven't been requiring that every PR be ready for release. Perhaps we should make an Issue Template and have that be the trigger for final review, instead of a PR?

   - **[Security WG]** ensures all controls and threat catalogs are complete and ready for release.
   - **[Taxonomy WG]** ensures the required fields and features are populated and ready for release.

>    - **[Duplication Reduction WG]** ensures that the content is unique and does not duplicate or mimic any existing standards or known catalogs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **[Duplication Reduction WG]** ensures that the content is unique and does not duplicate or mimic any existing standards or known catalogs.
```

This isn't really in scope for what DupRed has been doing, better to omit.

   - **[Delivery WG]** ensures that the PR aligns with content development and formatting standards.
3. **Validation:** All [WG]s must validate and approve the PR to proceed. Upon approval, the PR can be merged into the main branch.

> #### Release Candidate Preparation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Release Candidate Preparation
```

1. **Request for Release Candidate (RC):** After the PR is merged, the Release Manager compiles the release candidate based on the merged changes.
2. **Working Group Approval:** The [WG]s review the release candidate to ensure all deliverables are finalized and meet release criteria. The release candidate must be approved before moving forward in the process.
3. **Change Management Board (CMB) Review:**
   - The CMB reviews the release candidate and confirms whether it adheres to compliance and quality standards.
   - If further changes are required, the Release Manager aggregates feedback and creates a loop for revisions.
4. **Prepare Official Release:** Once the CMB has approved the request, then the Release Manager will begin the promotion process for the release candidate.

> #### Final Release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Final Release
```
